MACHINE-READABLE BLAZON

The basic form of a blazon is the field or division, followed by an ordinary,
list of movable charges, list of charges placed upon the ordinary, list of 
charge specifiers for charges placed on other charges, list of secondary 
Ordinaries and charges thereon.

(FIELD|DIVISION),? (ORDINARY)( (CHARGELIST))?( (SPECIFIERLIST))?( (ORDINARY))*

Before the first charge not constituting part of the division as a sub-blazon
(as specified below) the words "over all" may appear. These words shall be 
accepted by the parser when encountered, but shall not be assigned any semantic
content. Where the words "over all" are encountered when parsing a sub-blazon, 
parsing of the sub-blazon should cease and the parser should return to parsing
the blazon which directly contains the sub-blazon (resuming from the point 
immediately after the words "over all"). If doing so causes a non-conformant 
blazon (eg too few fields specified for a division) the parser shall stop parsing 
and emit an error.

When words are encountered that do not fit the form expected by this specification 
of a blazon during the parsing of a sub-blazon, the parser shall stop parsing the 
sub-blazon (emitting an error if the blazon is mal-formed) and continue parsing 
its containing blazon, starting from the words which caused parsing of the sub-
blazon to stop. If such words are encountered while parsing the root blazon, the 
parser shall stop parsing and emit an error.

PUNCTUATION

A comma may appear after the tincture of a blazon (or sub-blazon) if there are 
one or more charges following it (which constitute part of that same blazon), or 
after the end of a sub-blazon if preceding the words "over all".

A semi-colon shall be taken to end a sub-blazon, in the same fashion as the 
words "over all". The words "over all" may appear after a semi-colon, and shall 
in that case have the effect of ending the blazon containing the sub-blazon 
terminated by the semi-colon. If this blazon is the root blazon, then the parser 
shall stop parsing and emit an error.

A colon may appear after an ordinal group. It shall be taken to end the 
ordinal group.

FIELD

A field is specified as a tincture, followed by an optional semy charge.

The tincture is drawn over the entire extent of the field, which is either 
the charge or division element that the field was specified for, or in the 
case of the field forming the root of a blazon, the entire sheild.

A semy charge is specified as any movable charge, with the number replaced
by the words "semy of", and is drawn at equal spacings on an (invisible) 
45 degree rectangular grid. The grid should be positioned such that as 
many charges as is reasonably possible are truncated by the edge of the 
field, in order to distinguish a semy charge from a movable charge that 
is simply blazoned as a high number.

DIVISION

A division is specified as a division name, which is either a proper 
heraldic division or a variation of the field, followed by an optional number, 
followed by an optional line of variation, two (or more if that is compatible 
with the particular division) sub-blazons, followed by an optional set of 
charge specifiers. In leiu of a number (which must be even), the division may 
be preceded by the word "tierced", indicating that there are three areas. When 
a sub-blazon which is not the first does not start with an ordinal group, it 
must be preceeded by the word "and".

When the first sub-blazon contains no charges, the second is assumed not to 
either, and no attempt is made to parse charges appearing after it as part of 
the sub-blazon (with the result being that any such charges are layed over all).

The areas associated with the ordinals are specified by the division.

(divisions)( of (#))?( (variations))? (BLAZON)( and (BLAZON))+
(divisions)( of (#))?( (variations))?( (OG):? (BLAZON))+
tierced (divisions)( (variations))? (BLAZON)( and (BLAZON))+
tierced (divisions)( (variations))?( (OG):? (BLAZON))+

CHARGE SPECIFIER

A charge specifier consists of the words "on the" followed by a charge name (or 
in the case of a division, an ordinal group), followed by a list of charges as 
if for a blazon. Said charges shall be appended to all the charges in the 
current blazon or sub-blazon which match the label, or in the case of a 
division, sub-blazons associated with the ordinals. Where a charge specifier is 
encountered for a sub-blazon which is already charged, the parser shall stop 
parsing and emit an error.

SUB-BLAZON

A sub-blazon consists of an optional ordinal group followed by a blazon. When 
a sub-blazon does not contain an ordinal group, it shall be assigned the lowest 
ordinal not already assigned within the division containing the sub-blazon.

The sub-blazon is drawn as an ordinary blazon would be, but confined to the 
space specified for its associated ordinal or ordinals by the division.

((OG): )?(BLAZON)

ORDINAL GROUP

An ordinal group consists of either a single ordinal number or a series of 
distinct ordinal numbers separated by a conjunction (usually "and").

Ordinal numbers shall either be as words (eg first, second, third...) or as 
Roman numerals (eg I, II, III...).

In a regex, (OG) means any ordinal group.

NUMBERS

Numbers may be specified as words (one, two, three...) or as numerals
(1, 2, 3...). The word "a" or "an" shall be taken as equivalent to "one" when 
parsing.

in a regex, (#) means any number

ORDINARY

An ordinary shall consist of a number, followed by the name of an ordinary,
an optional line of variation, and an optional tincture. When charges are to 
be placed upon the ordinary, it must be preceded by the word "on".

MOVABLE CHARGE

A movable charge shall consist of a number, followed by the name of a movable charge,
an optional orientation (or attitude for beasts), an optional list of charge modifiers,
an optional arrangement, an optional tincture, and an optional placement.

CHARGE

A Charge shall take one of the following forms:

(#) (charges)( (modifierList))?( (surroundingGroup))?
on (#) (charges)( (modifierList))?( (surroundingGroup))? (CHARGE)

Ordinaries do not have a placement.
Only beasts have beastly tinctures.

MODIFIER LIST
(modifiers)( (modifiers))*

Possible modifiers:
* Posture (bendwise, rampant, etc)
* treatment (couped bendwise, etc)
* tincture (ermine, sable, etc)
* beastly tinctures (armed gules, etc)
* Placement (in fess, in chief, etc)

SURROUNDING GROUP
(between|below|above|within) (CHARGE)( and (CHARGE))*

TINCTURE

A tincture is either the name of a tincture, the words "of the" followed by an 
ordinal (which refer to the nth tincture already named), or a division with no 
charges.